chore(contributing): rewrite (#137)
nodejs/userland-migrations: CONTRIBUTING.md

- npm for managing packages

## Project Structure

The project is structured as follows:

- `recipes/`: is where the codemod are stored.
- `utils`: is a npm workspace that contains utility functions used by the codemods like `ast-grep` utilities.

### A codemod structure

Each codemod is defined in a directory under `recipes/`. The directory should contain:

- `README.md` - A description of the codemod, its purpose, and how to use it.
- `package.json` - The package manifest for the codemod.
- `src/workflow.ts` - The main entry point for the codemod. That uses `jssg` codemod API to define the transformation logic. [codemod docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#codemod%40next-jssg)
- `codemod.yml` -  The codemod manifest file
- `workflow.yml` - The workflow definition file that defines the codemod's workflow. [workflow docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
- `test/` - Contains tests for the codemod. Tests should be written using the `jssg` testing utilities. [codemod docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#codemod%40next-jssg)
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration file for the codemod and your IDEs.

**`workflow.ts`** example:
```ts

> import type { SgRoot, Edit } from "@ast-grep/napi";

Reviewer: Here you suggest importing the ast-grep dependencies directly from @ast-grep/napi, but I think it's safer to import them from @codemod.com/jssg-types/main instead.

What do you think?

Author: good catch !

> # Contributing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Contributing to Node.js Codemods
```

> Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project! We welcome contributions from the community. Please follow these guidelines to ensure a smooth contribution process.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project! We value contributions from the community and want to make the process as smooth as possible.

> ## Prerequisites
> 
> - Node.js (specify the version in the `.nvmrc` file)
> - npm for managing packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- Node.js (version specified in the `.nvmrc` file)
- npm (for package management)
```

> ## Project Structure
> 
> The project is structured as follows:
> 
> - `recipes/`: is where the codemod are stored.
> - `utils`: is a npm workspace that contains utility functions used by the codemods like `ast-grep` utilities.
> 
> ### A codemod structure
> 
> Each codemod is defined in a directory under `recipes/`. The directory should contain:
> 
> - `README.md` - A description of the codemod, its purpose, and how to use it.
> - `package.json` - The package manifest for the codemod.
> - `src/workflow.ts` - The main entry point for the codemod. That uses `jssg` codemod API to define the transformation logic. [codemod docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#codemod%40next-jssg)
> - `codemod.yml` -  The codemod manifest file
> - `workflow.yml` - The workflow definition file that defines the codemod's workflow. [workflow docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
> - `tests/` - Contains tests for the codemod. Tests should be written using the `jssg` testing utilities. [codemod docs](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#codemod%40next-jssg)
> - `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration file for the codemod and your IDEs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Project Overview

Our codebase is organized as follows:

- `recipes/`: Contains all the codemods
- `utils/`: An npm workspace with utility functions used by the codemods (including [ast-grep](https://ast-grep.github.io/) utilities)

## Codemod Development

### Structure of a Codemod

Each codemod resides in its own directory under `recipes/` and should include:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `README.md` | Description, purpose, and usage instructions |
| `package.json` | Package manifest |
| `src/workflow.ts` | Main entry point using the `jssg` codemod API |
| `codemod.yml` | Codemod manifest file |
| `workflow.yml` | Workflow definition file |
| `tests/` | Test suite using `jssg` testing utilities |
| `tsconfig.json` | TypeScript configuration |
```

> **`workflow.ts`** example:
> ```ts
> import type { SgRoot, Edit } from "@codemod.com/jssg-types/main";
> 
> /**
>  * Transform function that converts deprecated api.fn calls
>  * to the new api.fn syntax.
>  *
>  * Handles:
>  * 1. api.fn(<args>)
>  * 2. api.fn(<args>, { recursive: true })
>  * ...
>  */
> export default function transform(root: SgRoot): string | null {
> 	const rootNode = root.root();
> 	let hasChanges = false;
> 	const edits: Edit[] = [];
> 
> 	// do some transformation
> 
> 	if (!hasChanges) return null;
> 
> 	return rootNode.commitEdits(edits);
> }
> ```
> 
> **`codemod.yml`** example:
> ```yaml
> schema_version: "1.0"
> name: "@nodejs/<codemod-name>"
> version: 0.0.1
> description: <Your codemod description>
> author: <Your Name>
> license: MIT
> workflow: workflow.yaml
> category: migration
> 
> targets:
>   languages:
>     - javascript
>     - typescript
> 
> keywords:
>   - transformation
>   - migration
> 
> registry:
>   access: public
>   visibility: public
> ```
> 
> > [!TIPS]
> > To iterate quickly with codemods, you can use their [codemod studio](https://docs.codemod.com/codemod-studio)

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
### Example Files

**`src/workflow.ts` example:**

```ts
import type { SgRoot, Edit } from "@codemod.com/jssg-types/main";

/**
 * Transform function that converts deprecated api.fn calls
 * to the new api.fn syntax.
 *
 * Handles:
 * 1. api.fn(<args>)
 * 2. api.fn(<args>, { recursive: true })
 * ...
 */
export default function transform(root: SgRoot): string | null {
	const rootNode = root.root();
	let hasChanges = false;
	const edits: Edit[] = [];

	// do some transformation

	if (!hasChanges) return null;

	return rootNode.commitEdits(edits);
}
```

**`codemod.yml` example:**

```yaml
schema_version: "1.0"
name: "@nodejs/<codemod-name>"
version: 0.0.1
description: <Your codemod description>
author: <Your Name>
license: MIT
workflow: workflow.yaml
category: migration

targets:
  languages:
    - javascript
    - typescript

keywords:
  - transformation
  - migration

registry:
  access: public
  visibility: public
```

> [!TIP]
> To iterate quickly with codemods, use [codemod studio](https://docs.codemod.com/codemod-studio) for interactive development.

## Useful Resources

- [Codemod CLI Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference)
- [Codemod Workflow Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
- [JSSG API Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#codemod%40next-jssg)
- [AST-grep Documentation](https://ast-grep.github.io/)
- [Testing Codemods](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/testing)
- [Codemod Best Practices](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/best-practices)
````

> ## Before pushing a commit
> 
> A convenient superset of checks is available via `node --run pre-commit`, which automatically fixes formatting and linting issues (that are safe to fix), checks types, and runs tests. Changes resulting from this should be committed.
> 
> > [!WARNING]
> > Some integration tests modify fixtures because they run the entire codemod. Remember to use the `git restore` command to restore these files before pushing a commit.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
## Development Workflow

### Before Pushing a Commit

Run our comprehensive check suite:

```bash
node --run pre-commit
```

This will:
- Fix formatting and safe linting issues automatically
- Check types
- Run tests

Be sure to commit any changes resulting from these automated fixes.

> [!WARNING]
> Some integration tests modify fixtures as they run the entire codemod. Remember to use `git restore` to revert these files before committing.
````

> ## Commit Messages
> 
> Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification for commit messages. This helps in generating changelogs and understanding the history of changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Commit Messages

Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification for your commit messages. This helps with:

- Automatic changelog generation
- Understanding the history of changes
- Semantic versioning

Examples:
- `feat: add new React 18 migration codemod`
- `fix: correct type checking in ESM migration`
- `docs: improve usage examples`
```

> ## Pull Requests
> 
> When submitting a pull request, please ensure that:
> - Your changes are well-documented.
> - You have run all tests and they pass.
> - Your code adheres to the project's coding standards (use `node --run pre-commit` to check this).
> - The pull request description clearly explains the changes and their purpose and it's use [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pull Request Process

When submitting a pull request:

1. Ensure your changes are well-documented
2. Run all tests (`node --run pre-commit`)
3. Follow the project's coding standards
4. Use the [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format in your PR title and description
5. Link to any related issues
6. Consider using [the PR template](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-template-for-your-repository) if available
```

> ### Acceptance Criteria
> 
> - At least 2 reviewers have approved the pull request.
> - All tests pass.
> - At least 48 hours have passed since the pull request was opened, allowing time for review and discussion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Acceptance Criteria

For a pull request to be merged, it must:
- Receive approval from at least 2 reviewers
- Pass all tests
- Be open for at least 48 hours to allow for review and discussion
```

## Codemod Development

### Structure of a Codemod

Each codemod resides in its own directory under `recipes/` and should include:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `README.md` | Description, purpose, and usage instructions |
| `package.json` | Package manifest |
| `src/workflow.ts` | Main entry point using the `jssg` codemod API |
| `codemod.yml` | Codemod manifest file |
| `workflow.yml` | Workflow definition file |
| `tests/` | Test suite using `jssg` testing utilities |
| `tsconfig.json` | TypeScript configuration |
### Example Files
**`src/workflow.ts` example:**
```ts
import type { SgRoot, Edit } from "@codemod.com/jssg-types/main";
/**
 * Transform function that converts deprecated api.fn calls
 * to the new api.fn syntax.
 *
 * Handles:
 * 1. api.fn(<args>)
 * 2. api.fn(<args>, { recursive: true })
 * ...
 */
export default function transform(root: SgRoot): string | null {
	const rootNode = root.root();
	let hasChanges = false;
	const edits: Edit[] = [];
	// do some transformation
	if (!hasChanges) return null;
	return rootNode.commitEdits(edits);
}
```
**`codemod.yml` example:**
```yaml
schema_version: "1.0"
name: "@nodejs/<codemod-name>"

> version: 0.0.1

Author: the question is do we want to directy publish 1.0.0 ? It's depend of when the depreciation/breaking change appear.
Previous deprecation can be released as 1.0.0 but a breaking change introduce on main but not already can be publish as 0.0.1 as nightly.

But maybe to edge case

> version: 0.0.1

Reviewer 3: Ahh. In that case, I think it would be `0.1.0`?

> version: 0.0.1

Author: do we want to be complex as that ...

> version: 0.0.1

Reviewer 3: >> Ahh. In that case, I think it would be 0.1.0?

> do we want to be complex as that ...

I think we want to be correct 🙃 [semver "development phase"](https://semver.org/#how-should-i-deal-with-revisions-in-the-0yz-initial-development-phase) it doesn't seem to me any more or less complex than `0.0.1`.

# Contributing to Node.js Userland Migration

Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project! We value contributions from the community and want to make the process as smooth as possible.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

> Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

Reviewer 3: Should there be a list of things here?

Author: it's should (node + npm)

author: <Your Name>
license: MIT
workflow: workflow.yaml
category: migration
targets:
  languages:
    - javascript
    - typescript
keywords:
  - transformation
  - migration
registry:
  access: public
  visibility: public
```

## Useful Resources

- [Codemod CLI Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference)
- [Codemod Workflow Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
- [Codemod Studio Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/codemod-studio)
- [JSSG API Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#cli-command-reference)
- [AST-grep Documentation](https://ast-grep.github.io/)

## Before pushing a commit

A convenient superset of checks is available via `node --run pre-commit`, which automatically fixes formatting and linting issues (that are safe to fix), checks types, and runs tests. Changes resulting from this should be committed.

> [!WARNING]
> Some integration tests modify fixtures because they run the entire codemod. Remember to use the `git restore` command to restore these files before pushing a commit.

## Development Workflow

### Before Pushing a Commit

Run our comprehensive check suite:

```bash
node --run pre-commit

> ```

Reviewer 3: This is mentioned a few lines above. I think they should be de-duplicated (no opinion on which to keep).

Author: simplify

# Contributing to Node.js Userland Migration

Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project! We value contributions from the community and want to make the process as smooth as possible.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the current versions of the following installed:

* node
* npm

> - Node.js (`.nvmrc` is set so you can use your favorite Node.js version)

Reviewer 3: That's not exactly what .nvmrc does: it makes it sound like nvmrc facilitates that. I might just remove that note altogether and just suggest node current.

- npm (for development dependencies)

### Project Overview

Our codebase is organized as follows:

- `.github/`: Contains GitHub files like issue templates and workflows

> - `recipes/`: Contains all the codemods

Reviewer 3: Now that Codemod itself has a concept of recipes (a collection of codemods), should we rename this directory to `migrations`?

Author: separted discution i'm going to open an issue for that

Author: separted discution i'm going to open an issue for that

## Useful Resources

- [Codemod CLI Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference)
- [Codemod Workflow Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
- [Codemod Studio Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/codemod-studio)
- [JSSG API Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#cli-command-reference)
- [AST-grep Documentation](https://ast-grep.github.io/)

## Development Workflow

### Before Pushing a Commit

Run our comprehensive check suite:

```bash
node --run pre-commit
```

This will:
- Fix formatting and safe linting issues automatically
- Check types
- Run tests
Be sure to commit any changes resulting from these automated fixes.

> [!WARNING]
> Some integration tests modify fixtures as they run the entire codemod. Remember to use `git restore` to revert these files before committing.

### Commit Messages

Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification for your commit messages. This helps with:

- Automatic changelog generation
- Understanding the history of changes
- Semantic versioning

Examples:
- `feat: add new node.js 18 migration codemod`
- `fix: correct type checking in ESM migration`

> - `docs: improve usage examples`

Reviewer 3: I believe a scope is required, like `feat(tmpDir-to-tmpdir): …`

## Pull Request Process

When submitting a pull request:
1. Ensure your changes are well-documented
2. Run all tests (`node --run pre-commit`)
3. Follow the project's coding standards
4. Use the [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format in your PR title and description

> 5. Link to any related issues

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Link to any related issues, using [GitHub keywords](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/using-keywords-in-issues-and-pull-requests) where applicable.
```

### Acceptance Criteria

For a pull request to be merged, it must:
- Receive approval from at least 2 reviewers
- Pass all tests

> - Be open for at least 48 hours to allow for review and discussion

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Be open for at least 48 hours to allow for review and discussion
  - except hotfixes
```

# Contributing to Node.js Userland Migration

Thank you for your interest in contributing to this project! We value contributions from the community and want to make the process as smooth as possible.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

### Project Overview

Our codebase is organized as follows:

- `.github/`: Contains GitHub files like issue templates and workflows
- `recipes/`: Contains all the codemods
- `utils/`: An npm workspace with utility functions used by the codemods (including [ast-grep](https://ast-grep.github.io/) utilities)

## Codemod Development

### Structure of a Codemod

Each codemod resides in its own directory under `recipes/` and should include:

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|

> | `README.md` | Description, purpose, and usage instructions |
> | `package.json` | Package manifest |
> | `src/workflow.ts` | Main entry point using the `jssg` codemod API |
> | `codemod.yml` | Codemod manifest file |
> | `workflow.yml` | Workflow definition file |
> | `tests/` | Test suite using `jssg` testing utilities |
> | `tsconfig.json` | TypeScript configuration |
> | `README.md` | Description, purpose, and usage instructions |
> | `package.json` | Package manifest |
> | `src/workflow.ts` | Main entry point using the `jssg` codemod API |
> | `codemod.yml` | Codemod manifest file |
> | `workflow.yml` | Workflow definition file |
> | `tests/` | Test suite using `jssg` testing utilities |
> | `tsconfig.json` | TypeScript configuration |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `README.md` | Description, purpose, and usage instructions |
| `package.json` | Package manifest |
| `src/workflow.ts` | Main entry point using the `jssg` codemod API |
| `codemod.yml` | Codemod manifest file |
| `workflow.yml` | Workflow definition file |
| `tests/` | Test suite using `jssg` testing utilities |
| `tsconfig.json` | TypeScript configuration |
```

Files are duplicated in this section

/**
 * Transform function that converts deprecated api.fn calls
 * to the new api.fn syntax.
 *
 * Handles:
 * 1. api.fn(<args>)
 * 2. api.fn(<args>, { recursive: true })
 * ...
 */
export default function transform(root: SgRoot): string | null {
	const rootNode = root.root();
	let hasChanges = false;
	const edits: Edit[] = [];
	// do some transformation
	if (!hasChanges) return null;
	return rootNode.commitEdits(edits);
}
```

**`codemod.yml` example:**
```yaml
schema_version: "1.0"
name: "@nodejs/<codemod-name>"
version: 1.0.0
description: <Your codemod description>
author: <Your Name>
license: MIT
workflow: workflow.yaml
category: migration

targets:
  languages:
    - javascript
    - typescript

keywords:
  - transformation
  - migration

registry:
  access: public
  visibility: public
```

## Useful Resources

- [Codemod CLI Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference)
- [Codemod Workflow Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/workflows)
- [Codemod Studio Documentation](https://docs.codemod.com/codemod-studio)
- [JSSG API Reference](https://docs.codemod.com/cli/cli-reference#cli-command-reference)

> - [AST-grep Documentation](https://ast-grep.github.io/)

Reviewer 4: Nits: ast-grep (not AST-grep)

Author: oh good to know
